ColdFusion has the ability to communicate with a number of different
databases, which will be covered later on in this course; for the sample
application we will be working on throughout the course, we will be
using MySQL. If you already have MySQL 4 or 5 already installed, you can
proceed to the 'Install Sample Files' section. If not, follow the steps
below:

## Windows

1. open up a browser and download mariaDB 10.2 msi file from this drop box location into your downloads folder on your c drive (C:\Users\username\Downloads)
1. pick the correct version of mariaDB for your operating system (Windows 32bit, Windows 64bit)
1. Double click on the msi file to load up the install wizard
1. first screen do this
1. next screen do this
1. next screen do this...
1. use the default port of 3306
1. use the service name of mysql (or mariadb)
1. mariadb username is: root --- password use: admin
1. note: might need to set up to run as a service, need to double check

---

## Mac

1. open up a browser and download mariaDB 10.2 msi file from this drop box location into your downloads folder on your c drive (C:\Users\username\Downloads)
1. pick the correct version of mariaDB for your operating system (mac 32bit or mac 64bit)
1. Double click on the pkg file to load up the install wizard
   1. first screen is the welcome screen letting you know you are about to install mariaDB
   1. This is the end-user agreement page. Check the agree and click next
   1. next screen accept the default radio button checked, Create new database instance
   1. next screen just accept all the default setting on the custom setup page.
   1. next screen type in and confirm the ROOT password, please use admin. Do not check the other checkboxes. Click next
      1. mariadb username is: root --- password use: admin
   1. review and write down the this information to go with your previous page root and admin (login credentials)
        1. use the default port of 3306
        1. use the service name of mysql (or mariadb)
   1. next page just leave it alone and click next
   1. Last page just click INSTALL.
       1. It will take some time for mariaDB to install
       1. in the command window you will see the progress of the install and if there are any issues
1. Now that this has been installed, you can install the code/pages to get the site running (1.3).
