cfhttp makes HTTP calls from your ColdFusion server to an internet
address of your choice. It is important to remember that it is the
ColdFusion server that will be calling the URL, not the browser that is
calling your ColdFusion page. Think of cfhttp as if you have proxy
browser on your server that can send and receive information to any
address on the internet. Imagine that this "virtual browser" on the
server can save the information that it receives to a variable, so that
it can be manipulated or passed to the user who has called your
ColdFusion page.

## Making a HTTP call

There are many attributes that the cfhttp tag can take. The simplest
cfhttp call can be done like this:

```cfml
<cfhttp url="http://cfmumbojumbo.com" method="get" />
```

This is equivalent to you getting on the server, starting the browser of
your choice and putting http://cfmumbojumbo.com in the address bar. All
the information returned from that HTTP request has been put into a
variable called cfhttp. If you dump the cfhttp variable like this:

```cfml
<cfhttp url="http://cfmumbojumbo.com" method="get" />
<cfdump var="#cfhttp#" />
```

You can see all the information about the raw html return (fileContent)
as well as the mime type, the header information, and status codes. The
response body, called filecontent by ColdFusion, contains (in this case)
all the raw HTML from the page. If you had pointed the URL to a JPG or
image file, it would return a java byte array.

## Commonly Used Attributes

As of CF 2018, there are 30 attributes you can use with cfhttp. For this
chapter, we will cover the most commonly used ones:

- **Method** defines the HTTP method (sometimes referred to as "verbs") of
action to be performed on the URL. The methods that cfhttp understands
are GET, POST, HEAD, PUT, DELETE, and OPTIONS. The most commonly used
verbs are GET and POST. GET retrieves whatever information returns from
the URL. POST can submit data to the chosen URL (form fields, uploaded
files, etc.) and then return the resultant page. OPTIONS will return
with information explaining what verbs the web server will accept from
you. HEAD is another verb; it responds the same as a GET, but only
returns the meta-information that is in the returning page's header. It
will not return the response body (HTML, image, file body, etc.). PUT
can upload file on the remote server. DELETE can remove a file on the
requested URL. The web server on the URL must be set up for PUT and
DELETE.

-**URL** is the address to which you want to talk. It can be an IP
address, hostname, or fully qualified domain name. If you pass URL
parameters in the url, they will be included in your request. For
example, url="http://www.myserver.com?id=5&myname=Tim" will be passed to
the remote server just as if it were typed into a web browser. You can
include http:// or https://; if you do not, cfhttp will default to
http://. If you include a port number in the URL, it will override the
port attribute. For example, url="http://www.myserver.com:8088" will
connect on port 8088. Remember, the ColdFusion server is going to need
permissions to talk to the remote server on port 8088, otherwise you may
get unexpected results.

-**File and Path** is used if you want the response body to be written to
a file; use this attribute and give it a file name and path:

```cfml
<cfhttp url="cfmumbojumbo.com" path="C:/test" file="test.html" />
<!--- Will take the HTML from the web page and write it to C:/test/test.html on your ColdFusion server. --->
```

- **GetAsBinary** tries to convert the response to binary. This can be set
to Auto, Never, No, or Yes. **Auto** will convert the response to binary
if it is recognized as proper form binary data; otherwise it will
converted to text. **Never** will treat all returned data as test,
regardless of its true MIME type. GetAsBinary is useful when you are
using cfhttp to grab images, zip files, or other binary data off other
web sites.

```cfml
<cfhttp url="http://6e33d2c506c5fcafb083-2091e9475e9ec26fdd926321647b46b0.r56.cf1.rackcdn.com/tim-bennadel.png" />
```

- **UserName and Password** is used when the web page is protected by
basic authentication on the web server. Note: these attributes are not
useful for a typical web site designed login screen.

- **Result** is the name of the variable you want to hold returned
results.

- **Port** is the port number you wish to make the HTTP request
through. The server that your ColdFusion code is running on must
have permissions to communicate on this port. The default is port 80.

- **Timeout** is the value in seconds that the ColdFusion server will
wait for a successful response before it considers the request to
have failed.
