Security is a broad topic area and the threats are constantly evolving.
Security encompasses more than just writing secure code, but also items
like the configuration and setup of the servers and network, and
practices and procedures for handling sensitive data.

In this chapter, we'll focus on areas of security that you have the most
control over as a ColdFusion developer in order to help you write more
secure ColdFusion code and understand the security settings in the
ColdFusion Administrator, making it more difficult for an attacker to
exploit your web application. We say "more difficult" because no web
application can be 100% secure.

There are several shifts in thought required.

1. The web browser, be it desktop or mobile, is not the client interface to your web application; anything that can communicate with the HTTP protocol is the client interface to your web application. This includes telnet, wget, web application testing tools, or web attack tools.
1. Do not trust any data that comes from the client. This is more than just the URL parameters and the form post data; it also includes cookies and CGI variables. Anything that originates from the client can be manipulated by an attacker.
1. Validate all input on the server side. Client side validation is nice for the user experience, but can be circumvented.

## Deny List Versus Allow List

_Deny lists_ are lists of known "bad" (sometimes referred to as a Black list) patterns. Since there are always
new attacks, black lists will always keep growing and are only as good
as the known pattern it can detect. ColdFusion 7 introduced a feature
called Script Protect that provided minimal Cross-site Scripting (XSS)
prevention and is an example of a deny list. It could block input that
included `<script>` tags while still allowing `<iframe>` because it was not
included in the pattern to look for.

_Allow lists_, on the other hand, are a list of "good" values or patterns
that the web application will accept for a given input, and all others
are rejected. Allow lists are sometimes referred to as _White lists_. Allow lists have the advantage in that they are a finite
set and can be used as part of the server side validation of data. An
example of a white list would be a list of US States abbreviations used
to check the value of the State form field on a form.

Using allow lists is the preferred approach and will be shown throughout
this chapter in the examples.
