Session identifiers (`CFID`, `CFTOKEN`, and `JSESSIONID`) need to be protected
since they provide an attacker with an easy way to impersonate a user if
they are acquired.

One of the biggest leakages of session identifiers occurs with
[cflocation](https://helpx.adobe.com/coldfusion/cfml-reference/coldfusion-tags/tags-j-l/cflocation.html) because the `addtoken` attribute defaults to `true`, appending
the session identifiers to the URL, and thus be easily captured. The
`addtoken` attribute should be set to `false` in almost all cases.

An additional measure to protect the session identifiers is to set the
cookie which they are delivered to be `HTTPOnly`. When a cookie is flagged
`HTTPOnly`, it is not possible for the cookie to be accessed in the
browser via Javascript. ColdFusion 9 added the ability to set HTTPOnly
cookies with cfcookie and ColdFusion 9.0.1 added a JVM flag to enable
HTTPOnly cookies for the session identifiers. Pete Freitag has an
excellent blog posting showing how to deal with this in older versions
of ColdFusion: [Setting up HTTPOnly Session Cookies for
ColdFusion](http://www.petefreitag.com/item/764.cfm).

ColdFusion 10 added several new configuration items for working with the
session cookie and authorization cookie for `cflogin`. They can be
configured globally through the ColdFusion Administrator or on a
per-application basis by applying the settings in Application.cfc.

```cfml
this.sessioncookie.httponly = true;     // if cookie to be httponly
this.sessioncookie.timeout = "10";      // session cookie age (in days)
this.sessioncookie.secure = true;       // only https session cookie
this.sessioncookie.domain = ".example.com"; // domain for which session cookies are valid
this.sessioncookie.disableupdate = true; // if session cookie can be modified by coldfusion tags (cfcookie, cfheader)

// CFLogin settings
this.authcookie.timeout = createTimeSpan(0, 0, 0, 20); // authentication cookie age
this.authcookie.disableupdate = true;   // if session cookie can be modified by coldfusion tags (cfcookie, cfheader)
```

ColdFusion 10 also introduced two new functions to work with sessions,
[`SessionInvalidate()`](https://cfdocs.org/sessioninvalidate) and [`SessionRotate()`](https://cfdocs.org/sessionrotate). `SessionInvalidate` will clear
all data stored in the session. If you are using J2EE sessions it will
not invalidate the underlying `JSESSIONID`. `SessionRotate` is useful to
prevent session fixation issues when used after the user is successfully
authenticated. SessionRotate will copy the current session data,
invalidate the current session, create a new session, and finally
populate the new session with the copied data.

Additional Resources:

- [OWASP Session Management Cheat Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Session_Management_Cheat_Sheet)
