Fixing problems within your code can sometimes be very difficult. If the
problem you are experiencing is an error, then the chances are it is
pretty easy to fix as you already know the file and line number of the
issue. If the issue you are trying to fix is that a piece of
functionality is not acting as you expected, then the problem is a bit
harder to resolve. There is no sure way to find these problems and fix
them, but there are a few debugging methods that can often help you find
the problem area.

## Request Debugging Output

When trying to debug a problem within your application, it can sometimes
be a very easy task or sometimes it can be a very arduous task. When an
error is thrown, you often know the file and line number of the problem
and you can fix it very easily. Sometimes the problem is that the
application is not doing what you expected it to do and often this is a
much harder problem to resolve. During these situations, the more
information you have, the better. This is where the Request Debugging
Output can help you.

On every page request, there is a lot of information that ColdFusion has
about the request that you do not usually see. By default, this output
is turned off,as it is not recommended that this be turned on in a
production environment as it can slow down the page load times. If it
were enabled on a production server, the information would not be
displayed to everyone, as it is only shown to approved IP addresses. To
turn on the Request Debugging information on your local server, log in
to the ColdFusion Administrator and go to Debugging & Logging \> Debug
Output Settings; select the Enable Request Debugging Output checkbox.
Once you click save, you should now see the debugging information at the
bottom of every ColdFusion page that runs on your server. If you go to a
ColdFusion page and you do not see that information, log back in to the
ColdFusion Administrator and go to Debugging & Logging \> Debugging IP
Addresses. On this screen you will see a list of all IP addresses that
are able to see the debugging information. Click on the Add Current
button. This will add your local IP address to the list (127.0.0.1 and
0:0:0:0:0:0:0:1 are added automatically) and you should now see
debugging information on every ColdFusion request.

The debugging information offers a lot of request information that can
be very useful when debugging an issue. The output is comprised of the
following sections:

- **Debugging Information**: This section gives you information about where the requested file is located, date and time information as well as some other server related information.
- **Execution Time**: This section gives you a list of all files that were executed in the request, in the order in which they were called, and how long they took to run. This information is very useful when debugging slow page loads or when needing to see all the files that were called.
- **SQL Queries**: This section displays all the SQL queries that were run on the page along with the SQL executed, how many records were returned, and how long the query took.
- **Trace Points**: This section works with the cftrace tag. This will be discussed later in this chapter.
- **Scope Variables**: This section is where the data that is stored in different scopes are output. Which scopes are output is controlled in the ColdFusion Administrator on the same page where you turned on this feature.

Using this information, you can often find where the problem might be
occurring.

## cftrace

The cftrace tag allows you to record the state of variables within your
application at a specific time. It tracks the run-time logic flow,
variables values, and execution time. The cftrace tag can be placed
anywhere inside your code any number of times. You can specify a
variable that you wish to trace, some text to associate with the trace,
if you wish the trace to be inline or not, and if you wish it to stop
the processing of the page or not. The cftrace tag has two output
options: inline or not inline. If the inline attribute is set to true,
then the trace information will be displayed at the end of the page
request as well as within the request debugging output. If the attribute
is set to false, then the information will only be displayed in the
debugging output. In addition to the information being displayed on the
page, the same information is stored in the cftrace.log file in the
ColdFusion Administrator.

The cftrace tag has an abort option, which, when set to yes, will halt
the page processing right after the tag. If this is set to false, the
page will continue to process. Often, the best way to use the cftrace
tag is to not set the abort option to true, but to let the page run.
Placing multiple cftrace tags within the site will allow you to see the
value of a variable at different stages of the request cycle. This will
often allow you to track down where unexpected anomalies might occur.

Here is an example of the cftrace tag. In this example we are tracing a
variable called today:

```cfml
<cftrace
    var = "today"
    text = "I am expecting this to be Friday"
    type = "information">
```

Here is the output we received when the tag was run:

```cfml
 [23:26:26.012 /Users/simon/Sites/learncfinaweek/frontend/views/main/default.cfm @ line: 8] [33 ms (1st trace)] - [today = Sunday] I am expecting this to be Friday
```

As you can see, the value of Today is Sunday. As you can tell from the
text added, we expected the value to be Friday; these values do not
match, so we know that we must be close to our problem.

## cfdump

Another method to help debugging a problem is to use the cfdump tag. The
cfdump tag will output any variable, even variables that are not a
simple value. Dumping variables allows you to see the current state of
the variable and any values it might hold. If the variable is more
complex, such as an object or ORM entity, then the cfdump tag will show
you all available properties and methods for that object. In its
simplest use case, the cfdump tag is provided a variable to be dumped.
For simple variables, this is fine, but for variables that are more
complex, such as ORM Entities, this can cause for a lot of information
to be output and possibly cause a Java Heap error. For more complex
variables, it is often necessary to use some additional attributes. The
top attribute allows you to specify a number which represents the depth
that you wish the dump to go. For example, if you specified a top value
of 3 and the variable was a query, only the top 3 rows would be output.

When cfdump is called, it outputs the provided variable and the page
continues to process. In some scenarios, it is necessary for you to stop
the page process right after the dump. If you are writing the cfdump
tag, then you can simply add the word abort to your attribute list, and
the page will stop processing after the tag.

In situations where you have multiple cfdumps being called, it might get
confusing which output relates to which tag in your files. For that
purpose, there is a label attribute that allows you to specify some text
which will be displayed with your dump.

Here is an example of a cfdump that dumps the session scope, only going
3 levels deep, and aborting once it has run:

```cfml
<cfdump
    var="#session#"
    label="I am the session scope"
    top="3"
    abort>
```

And here is the script alternative:

```cfml
<cfscript>
    writedump(var="#session#" top="3" label="I am the session scope" abort=true);
</cfscript>
```

One feature of the cfdump tag that can be very useful is its ability to
write to a file rather than displaying to a page. This allows the page
to be executed uninterrupted, but still allow you to get the data you
need. To write to a file, just simply provide a file path to the output
attribute:

```cfml
<cfscript>
    dumpLocation = expandPath("writeDumpResults.html");
    writedump(var=someVar format="html" output="dumpLocation" label="I am dumping to a file" abort=true);
</cfscript>
```
