## What is Globalization?

The process of making an application ready for global usage is
globalization, or G11N (for the 11 letters between the "g" and the "n"
in globalization). Globalization consists of two steps:
internationalization, or I18N (for the 18 letters between the "i" and
"n" in internationalization), and localization or L10N (for the 10
letters between "l" and "n" in localization—if you're sensing a pattern
here, yes there is, people working in this field are particularly fond
of numeronyms). The atomic units for globalization are locales. Locales
are the most important piece of G11N.

### Locales

Locales are languages and calendars; date, number, and currency
formatting; spelling; writing system direction; etc., that are specific
to a geographic region. For instance, the English (color) and date
formats (month/day/year) used in Brooklyn are not exactly the same as
the English (colour) and date formats (day/month/year) used in Perth.

Since version 7, ColdFusion locales are based on core Java locales,
which means the locale information concerning formatting, calendars,
etc. are an integral part of the underlying Java platform and vetted by
the Unicode Consortium—you do not have to research these yourself.
Locale resources are accessed via locale identifiers in the form of
language\_Country, such as en\_US for the English language used in the
United States, or fr\_CA for the French language as used in Canada. Take
note of the case, as in all things related to core Java, it matters.

### Internationalization (I18N)

The process of I18N is the first step in making your application
globalized. It consists of stripping away any hard-coded text and date,
time and number formatting that tie it to a specific locale and
replacing these with variables or functions that can dynamically return
locale appropriate content or formatting. This allows for the
application to be adapted to various locales **without major engineering
changes**. Considering the amount of work this can involve, it is
perhaps best done from the outset rather after the fact (though its
quite common for applications to be undergo G11N well after development
has completed).

### Localization (L10N)

Once an application has undergone I18N, the next step is making it ready
for use in a given locale. This is done by translating all of the
application's text into the various languages that your application will
support as well as using appropriate locale-based functions to format
dates, numbers, currency, etc. These function are usually prefixed by
"LS" such as LSdatetimeFormat. You can find a reference for all
ColdFusion functions and tags related to globalization here:
[Developing Globalized Applications](https://helpx.adobe.com/coldfusion/developing-applications/developing-cfml-applications/developing-globalized-applications.html)

Note that during the translation process, locales need to be considered
as well. It helps fine tune the content to a specific region.

### Simple I18N Example

Lets say you have an original web application dealing with appointments
and had something like the following block of code:

```cfml
writeoutput( "You have the following appointments for #dateFormat(now())#:" );
<ul>
    for (i=1; i<=todaysAppointments.recordCount; i++) {
        writeoutput( "<li>#appointmentWith#: #timeFormat(appointment)#</li>" );
    }
</ul>
```

After I18N that would look like the following:

```cfml
// note since around CF9, ColdFusion should automatically determine page encoding, therefore <cfprocessingdirective > is
// no longer required. however if you find ColdFusion is not picking up the correct page encoding you can force
// the issue using the following line of code at the tp of your ColdFusion page:
// pageencoding "UTF-8";
setLocale( session.locale );
writeoutput("#appointmentsRB[session.locale].appointmentsText #LsdateFormat(now(),'FULL')#: ');
<ul>
    for (i=1; i<=todaysAppointments.recordCount; i++) {
        writeoutput("<li>#appointmentWith#: #LstimeFormat(appointment,"MEDIUM")#</li>");
    }
</ul>
```

where

- session.locale is a session variable holding the user's preferred locale, usually set at login or application initialization.
- setLocale(session.locale) tells ColdFusion what locale this page will be using.
- appointmentsRB is a resource bundle (see below) as a ColdFusion structure holding the application's translated text.
- appointmentsText is the structure value holding the translated text for "You have the following appointments for".

## Some Things to Consider when Building a Globalized Application

### More on Locales

Since your entire globalized application flows from a user's locale it
is critical that this be captured and stored for use throughout the
application. The easiest way of capturing a user's locale is simply to
ask for it. For example, if your application requires registration, ask
for it then. As a tip, it's usually a good idea to display locale
choices in that language: French in French, Thai in Thai, etc.

If asking isn't possible, a stealthier approach is to examine the user's
browser-provided data such as http\_accept\_language which is accessible
via the CGI scope. You can also supplement this by examining the user's
IP address and looking up their country from one of the many online
geolocation services. Note that it's a good practice, however, to also
provide a way for a user to manually change their locale.

It's important that the user's locale be persisted and used throughout
the application. A session-scoped variable is often the best choice for
this. The relevant ColdFusion function for handling locales are:

- **setLocale**: Tells ColdFusion to use the supplied locale identifier for the current page.
- **getLocale**: Returns the locale ColdFusion is currently using.

### Character Encoding/Writing Systems

A character encoding is a map for each character in a language to a
numeric code that can be represented in a computer. For a variety of
reasons, there are often more than one encoding for a language.
Japanese, for example, is represented by Shift-JIS, EUC-JP, and
ISO-2022-JP encodings. Since each encoding is basically the same set of
numbers, data and application content couldn't be dynamic. For instance,
in a web application, each web page had to be encoded in that language's
code page--developers therefore had to develop and maintain one page per
encoding the application needed to support. Data for each encoded web
page had to be stored in its own column in a table or its own table in a
database. Prior to the creation of Unicode in 1987, developers always
had to climb this encoding Tower of Babel, making globalized
applications extremely costly and very limited in scope. Unicode allows
for a single, standard encoding scheme for much of the world's
languages. Since all modern databases now support it, it's the logical
choice for character encoding for globalized applications. In short,
**just use Unicode**.

A language's writing system dictates the way a language is written.
There are basically three flavors:

- **Left-to-right (LTR)**: used in Western languages such as English, French, German, etc.
- **Right-to-left (RTL)**: used in Middle Eastern languages such as Hebrew and Arabic.
- **Vertical**: used in some Asian languages (traditional Japanese uses tategaki , top-to-bottom, right to left format as does traditional Chinese from which it was derived—modern forms of Japanese and Chinese follow a LTR format, some print formats still use a vertical layout).

Writing systems have an impact on an application's layout and display.
It's especially important for RTL languages. Not only is the text RTL,
but the whole application layout needs to be RTL—visual attention is no
longer in the upper-left corner but instead in the upper-right.

### Resource Bundles

As mentioned above, one common way to handle localized text at run time
is via resource bundles. All static text in the application is replaced
by variables that hold that specific text translated into the different
languages that need to be supported. A resource bundle can be a simple
ColdFusion structure:

```cfml
<cfscript>
    appointments={};
        appointments.en_US.greeting="Hello"; (American English)
        appointments.fr_FR.greeting="Bonjour"; (French)
        appointments.de_DE.greeting="Hallo"; (German)
        appointments.sv_SE.greeting="Hallå" (Swedish)
        appointments.th_TH.greeting="สวัสดี"; (Thai)
        appointments.ja_JP.greeting="もしもし"; (Japanese)
</cfscript>
```

where the various locales in this structure could be accessed at run
time by supplying a locale key (en\_US, fr\_FR, etc.). This approach,
however, is very cumbersome to maintain, especially as the application
grows in complexity or the number of locales it supports.

### Dates, Times, Calendars and Time Zones

Date formats are particularly vexing to many developers. For instance, a
date string of 1/2/2012 in en\_US locale is January 2, 2012, while in
en\_AU it's 1 February 2012; that's quite a difference if you're making
an appointment. To ensure that date and time formats are correct for a
user's locale, use the following functions:

- LStimeFormat
- LSdateFormat

to format dates and times.

Note that it's usually a good idea to format dates and times using one
of the regular masks, FULL, LONG, MEDIUM, or SHORT to ensure your
application isn't breaking some cultural rule as well as to make sure
the dates and times the application displays to the user can also be
parsed back to a ColdFusion date-time object via LSParsedatetime
function.

ColdFusion dates are based on the Gregorian calendar which will suffice
for many locales. While this is an advanced topic, it's important to
note that there are several other calendars in common use globally:

- Islamic calendar
- Buddhist calendar
- Chinese calendar
- Indian calendar
- Persian calendar

Time zones are another issue to many developers, especially if users are
in one time zone while the ColdFusion server is in another. Again, this
is an advanced topic but developers should take note of the following
points:

- ColdFusion considers all date-times to be in the server's time zone; ColdFusion doesn't care about your intentions, just the server's time zone.
- If ColdFusion handles any date-times, these will be converted to the server's time zone.
- The simplest option for handling time zone issues is not to store date-time objects but instead store epoch offsets such as Java's (milliseconds since 1-jan-1970).
- Basic timezone handling is done via the getTimeZoneInfo, which returns a structure holding the server's time zone information.

### Numbers/Currencies

Similar to date and time formats, it's important to display numbers and
currencies in the locale's correct format. For example, 123456789.10 in
en\_US locale would be understandably displayed as 123,456,789 to
Americans. The same number would be displayed as 123 456 789 in fr\_FR
locale and unfamiliar to most Americans. The relevant ColdFusion
functions for formatting numbers and currencies are:

- LSnumberFormat
- LScurrencyFormat

Note that the masks used in these function will map the dollar sign
(\$), decimal (.) and comma (,) to the appropriate locale symbols. Also
note that the LScurrencyFormat function will not convert between
currencies; it's not a function for handling exchange rates.

### Databases

As mentioned above, modern databases are all Unicode-capable and
shouldn't be an issue when considering which one to deploy. It's only
important that any database-specific setup, data types, collations, etc.
be followed to ensure your application's database is able to fully use
Unicode and perform sorting in a locale specific way.

### International Components for Unicode for Java (ICU4J)

Way back in 2011 (somewhere between CF9 and CF10) Adobe steathily introduced the powerful International Components for Unicode for Java libary AKA ***ICU4J*** into Coldfusion's standard installation. Despite the lack of fanfare, this is a significant update to ColdFusion's G11N capabilities. Among other things it provides:

- functionality for almost a dozen non-Gregorian calendars (Chinese,Dangi,Ethopic,Taiwan,etc.) which are critical if you manipulate or display dates or times from one of the supported non-Gregorian calendars.
- better locale support than standard Java
- locale sensitive string comparison and searching
- Unicode character range validation (likely the reason this library was included in ColdFusion in the first place)
- locale sensitive plural formatting, including units (eg. the 1 hour vs 2 hours)
- rule based number formatting
- Thai language wordbreak (well important to me anyway)

For further information see:

- [ICU4J site] (<http://site.icu-project.org/home/why-use-icu4j>)
- [ICU4J API] (<http://icu-project.org/apiref/icu4j/>)
